So far, we've been talking about property files,
which have been a staple in Java since forever.
Let's see what it would take to use newer YAML-based files.
These files will pretty much work just like a properties files
in the sense that it needs to live on the class path and it
needs to be named application.yml.
The nice thing about Spring Boot is that you can mix and
match property and YAML file types.
To show how that works,
I'm going to move the server port from the
application.properties file to a new application.yml file.
That leaves the JDBC connection for the database in one
file and the server port in another.
So I'll begin by going over to application.properties and
removing the server.port configuration property.
Next, I'll create a new file in src, main,
resources, and I'll call it application.yml.
I can now paste the server port into the YAML file,
but I'll need to adjust it because YAML files are not
configured like property files.
YAML files show hierarchy and nested properties fairly well.
And so if you have a lot of complex, really deep properties,
YAML files work well for that.
So I'll make sure my property files are saved,
and I'll go ahead and restart the server.
If I go look at the output,
you'll notice that the Tomcat server still started on port 5000 even
though I removed it out of the application.properties file.
Some advice for your project,
even though you can mix and match property file types in your application,
I'd recommend picking one format and sticking with it.
You want to try and isolate your configuration for your setup in
your application and keep it as simple as possible.
Last, environment profiles also work with the YAML files.
We could simply append a -dev or -prod to a YAML file,
and it would work exactly like application property files do
using a Spring profile from the command line.
And at this point,
we know just about everything there is to know about
property files in Spring Boot, so let's check out what you can do with custom properties.